https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Notepad Notepad is a common text-only (plain text) editor. The resulting files—typically saved with the .txt extension—have  no format tags or styles, making the program suitable for editing system files to use in a DOS environment and, occasionally, source code for later compilation or execution, usually through a command prompt. It is also useful
for its negligible use of system resources; making for quick load time and processing time, especially on under-powered hardware. Notepad supports both left-to-right and right-to-left based languages. Historically, Notepad did not treat newlinesin Unix- or classic Mac OS-style text files correctly. However, on 8th May 2018, Microsoft announced that they had fixed 
this issue.[11] Notepad offers only the most basic text manipulation functions, such as finding text. Only newer versions of Windows include an updated version of Notepad with a search and replace function. However, it has much less 
functionality in comparison to full-scale editors. In all versions of Windows, Notepad uses a built-in window class named EDIT and the maximum file size that Notepad can open is dependent on operating system limitations on the size of the EDIT window class, with the limit being 
different for each version of Windows. Due to the operating system limit of the EDIT window class, the Notepad version shipped with Windows 3.0, Windows 3.1 and Windows 3.11 could not open files larger than 54 KB (kilobytes) and Microsoft recommended not to open files larger than 45 KB, with the official workaround advice provided by Microsoft being "Use another text editor",[12] but this limit was extended to 64 KB in Windows 95 
(and remained the same in Windows 98 and Windows Me), with users now directed to WordPad to open larger files. On the Notepad version shipped with Windows XP the limit was 32 MB (megabytes) with the application displaying the message "The file is too large for Notepad. Use another editor to edit the file" if the user attempted to open a file larger  than 32 MB.[13] Newer versions of Notepad can open files at least up to 58 MB (megabytes) in size,[14] and on Windows
 8.1 the Notepad application is able to open files at least as large as 512 MB (megabytes) but fails to open
 1 GB (gigabyte) files displaying the same message that Windows XP users would see ("The file is too large
 for Notepad. Use another editor to edit the file").[15]

Up to Windows 95, Fixedsys was the only available display font for Notepad. Windows NT 4.0 and 98 introduced the ability 
to change this font. As of Windows 2000, the default font was changed to Lucida Console. The font setting, however,
 only affects how the text is shown to the user and how it is printed, not how the file is saved to disk. The default
 font was changed to Consolas on Windows 8.

Up to Windows Me, there were almost no keyboard shortcuts and no line-counting feature. Starting with Windows 2000,
 shortcuts for common tasks like new, open and save were added, as well as a status-bar with a line counter (available only when word-wrap is disabled).

In the Windows NT-based versions of Windows, Notepad can edit traditional 8-bit text files as well as 
Unicode text files (both UTF-8 and UTF-16, and in case of UTF-16, both little-endian and big-endian).

Notepad also has a simple built-in logging function. Each time a file that starts with .LOG is opened, 
the program inserts a text timestamp on the last line of the file.[16][17]

Notepad accepts text from the Windows clipboard. When clipboard data with multiple formats is pasted into Notepad, 
the program only accepts text in the CF_TEXT format.[18] This is useful for stripping embedded font type and style 
codes from formatted text, such as when copying text from a web page and pasting into an email message or
 other WYSIWYG text editor. Formatted text can be temporarily pasted into Notepad, and then immediately
 copied again in stripped format to paste into the other program.

Superscripts with a space as in 98.6 o Fahrenheit and 3 2 = 9, and subscripts without a space 
as in H2O, can be understood in Notepad.[original research?]

Notepad can print files, but doesn't print correctly if Word Wrap is turned on. Headers, footers, and margins can be set and adjusted when preparing to print a file under Page Setup. The date, file name, and other information can be placed in the headers and footers with various codes consisting of an ampersand ('&') followed by a letter.